ROCm docs style IA and style guide updates (#311)
AMD-AGI/GEAK: docs/release-notes.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Release notes for GEAK. Find what changed in each version, including new features, bug fixes, and breaking changes."
    "keywords": "GEAK, release notes, changelog, ROCm, GPU kernel optimization, version history"
---

# GEAK release notes

This topic lists what changed in each GEAK release, including new features, bug fixes, and breaking changes. For verified hardware and software combinations per release, see the [GEAK compatibility matrix](compatibility.md).

## GEAK v3.2.2

> Patch release cut from the `chore/subagent-docs-upstream-resource` branch HEAD (`d44e1cb`), the head of PR #290.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Patch release cut from the HEAD commit (`d44e1cb`) of PR [#290](https://github.com/AMD-AGI/GEAK/pull/290) on branch `chore/subagent-docs-upstream-resource`.
```

> Carries harness shape-faithfulness improvements and backend-rewrite subagents, plus upstreamed subagent docs and resources, on top of the v3.2.1 GEMM tuning entry point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Includes the harness shape-faithfulness improvements, backend-rewrite subagents, and upstreamed subagent documentation and resources, building on the v3.2.1 GEMM tuning entry point.
```

> Tagged independently of PR #290's merge status so downstream consumers get a durable, reproducible ref regardless of how or when the PR lands on `main`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tagged independently of PR #290's merge status so downstream consumers have a durable, reproducible reference, regardless of when or how the PR is merged into `main`.
```

- Deterministic Path-A; synthesizes harnesses for flag-less and composite tasks; routes shape-bearing tasks to the harness generator.
- Handles truncated tool calls instead of crash-looping; soft cap no longer hard-fails the run. Five legacy capabilities ported into v3.

### Model resolution

- Default model bumped to `claude-opus-4.8`.
- Provider-qualified model names so sub-agent fallback can't 400 mid-run; NTID normalization and core42 gateway header.

### FlyDSL knowledge base and skills

- Rewrote PyTorch→FlyDSL translation knowledge base (zero-compute enforcement, CuTe primitives, epilogue fix); guardrails, prefetch patterns, LDS diagnostics; fp16 deterministic harness.

### Patch capture and packaging

- `save_and_test` falls through to `git diff --no-index` and `diff -ruN`; JIT/compiled cache artifacts excluded from captured patches.
- Package bundles `subagents/`, `skills/`, and reverse-knowledge scripts; install resolves repo root for non-editable installs.

### RAG and miscellaneous

- RAG postprocessor reuses the agent's live model instead of hardcoding; assorted CI, lint, and test-flake fixes.

---

## GEAK v3.2.0

### Unified multi-agent optimization pipeline

> Replaced the Triton/HIP language router with a unified orchestrator that dispatches subagents based on task type, following a Claude Code/Codex-style multi-agent architecture. The framework is more flexible and easier to extend: new workflows can be supported by adding new subagent definitions and system prompts. Multi-round optimization is now unified across all kernel optimization workflows, with future support for resuming from intermediate checkpoints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replaced the Triton/HIP language router with a unified orchestrator that dispatches subagents based on task type, following a Claude Code/Codex-style multi-agent architecture. The framework is more flexible and easier to extend: new workflows require new subagent definitions and system prompts. Multi-round optimization is now unified across all kernel optimization workflows, with future support for resuming from intermediate checkpoints.
```

Reviewer 2: Do we want to promise any future support in the release notes?

- **Optimizer:** applies strategies drawn from historically sorted runs to improve latency and efficiency.

### Composable techniques

- 1-shot prompting: retrieve similar Triton kernels by code similarity.
- Knowledge injection: hardware specs and optimization principles.
- Reflexion-style self-correction on failed tests.
- Configurable LLM selection for the agent.
- LLM as optimizer over sorted historical performance records.
- Debugging trap (`max_perf_debug_num`) to abandon stuck strategies.
- Parallel scaling: multiple independent runs with temperature-based diversity and pass@k-style analysis.

### Benchmark outcomes

| Scenario | TritonBench-modified | ROCm 30-kernel set |
|----------|---------------------|-------------------|
| Direct LLM prompting (baseline) | ~8–16% execution accuracy | — |
| GEAK without optimizer (ablation) | ~51% execution accuracy, 1.81× speedup | ~40% execution accuracy, 0.85× speedup |
| Full GEAK | up to 54.89% execution accuracy, 2.59× speedup | 63.33% execution accuracy, 0.92× speedup |

11 of 30 kernels beat expert baselines on latency in the ROCm benchmark set.

## Related topics

> - [What is GEAK?](what-is-geak.md) — overview of GEAK's capabilities and design goals.

Reviewer 3: Suggesting for consistency with references at the end of [docs/what-is-geak.md‎]
```suggestion
- [What is GEAK?](what-is-geak.md)—overview of GEAK's capabilities and design goals.
```

> - [GEAK compatibility matrix](compatibility.md) — verified hardware and software configurations per release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [GEAK compatibility matrix](compatibility.md)—verified hardware and software configurations per release.
```

> - [Install GEAK](install/install.md) — install the latest version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Install GEAK](install/install.md)—install the latest version.
```
